Title: 为什么在大多数编程语言里，位运算符的优先级(& ^ |)低于比较运算符(== > < !=)
Date: 2013-08-12 14:48:06
Author: Leonardo Zhou
Category: Code
Slug: post/58039964836
Save_as: post/58039964836/index.html

当初学C语言的时候，我也曾经思考过这个问题,感觉位运算符的优先级应该在移位运算符(`<< >>` )的和不等于运算符( `< <= >= >`)这两类运算符之间更合适。可惜当时没能不求甚解，以为K&R两位大师这么做自有其玄妙，吾等凡人功力商浅不必参悟透彻。多年后，在StackOverflow上碰巧看到这个问题 [Why do bitwise operators have lower priority than comparisons?][]，终于解答了我的疑惑。


Dennis M. Ritchie 大神的解答([The Development of the C Language][]):


> > **Neonatal C**
> 
> 
> Rapid changes continued after the language had been named, for example
> the introduction of the && and || operators. In BCPL and B, the
> evaluation of expressions depends on context: within if and other
> conditional statements that compare an expression's value with zero,
> these languages place a special interpretation on the and (&) and or
> (|) operators. In ordinary contexts, they operate bitwise, but in the
> B statement
> 
> if (e1 & e2) ...
> 
> the compiler must evaluate e1 and if it is non-zero, evaluate e2, and
> if it too is non-zero, elaborate the statement dependent on the if.
> The requirement descends recursively on & and | operators within e1
> and e2. The short-circuit semantics of the Boolean operators in such
> `truth-value' context seemed desirable, but the overloading of the
> operators was difficult to explain and use. At the suggestion of Alan
> Snyder, I introduced the && and || operators to make the mechanism
> more explicit. Their tardy introduction explains an infelicity of C's
> precedence rules. In B one writes
> 
> if (a==b & c) ...
> 
> to check whether a equals b and c is non-zero; in such a conditional
> expression it is better that & have lower precedence than ==. In
> converting from B to C, one wants to replace & by && in such a
> statement; to make the conversion less painful, we decided to keep the
> precedence of the & operator the same relative to ==, and merely split
> the precedence of && slightly from &. Today, it seems that it would
> have been preferable to move the relative precedences of & and ==, and
> thereby simplify a common C idiom: to test a masked value against
> another value, one must write
> 
> if ((a&mask) == b) ...
> 
> where the inner parentheses are required but easily forgotten.


简而言之，是两位大神掉进了自己挖的坑里了。C语言的前身是B语言。B语言是没有逻辑运算符（&&
||）的，是通过位运算充当逻辑运算的。大神在发明C时，沿用的B语言的一些~~陋习~~传统。由于C的流行，在C之后发明的大多数类C语言也纷纷掉这个坑里了。


  [Why do bitwise operators have lower priority than comparisons?]: http://programmers.stackexchange.com/questions/194635/why-do-bitwise-operators-have-lower-priority-than-comparisons
  [The Development of the C Language]: http://cm.bell-labs.com/cm/cs/who/dmr/chist.html
